Dr. Figg: Here we are doing the intake for actual Martin.
Dr. Figg: Can you hear me okay
Dr. Figg: Yeah. Wonderful. I'm Dr Shaikh. How are you doing,
Ashley Martin: I'm good, how are you
Dr. Figg: I'm all right. Thank you. I'm sure during your intake today. How can I help you
Ashley Martin: I just wanted to get on this box in
Ashley Martin: The main thing.
Dr. Figg: Okay, why do you want to get on Suboxone
Ashley Martin: Because it helps. I've been addicted to opiates for about 15 years and I've been off them for about a month, two months because I was in jail. That was only reason why I was off it, but the Suboxone helps me not used other drugs and it keeps me off, you know, free
Ashley Martin: Healthy not you know keeping out of trouble.
Ashley Martin: Yeah.
Dr. Figg: Those are good reasons. Okay, so let's kind of talk about your history and understand what got you to write down. So you said you started using opiates know 15 years ago. Yeah. What did you start using first
Ashley Martin: Um, it was like a pain pill probably biking in, you know, okay, and then, um, I like to have me feel so first it was recreationally like you know on weekends or if I had a headache, you know, nothing major. But then about after on my son. When I was about 21
Ashley Martin: I got in a car accident and I was prescribed something stronger and then it was like an everyday thing. And then I started taking morphine oxy cotton methadone.
Dr. Figg: Okay.
Dr. Figg: No.
Dr. Figg: Worries you prescribed these things were you buying from the street.
Ashley Martin: I was prescribed the vitamin and the narcos um but no after that it was my dad had prescription for some pain meds and he would just give them to me.
Dr. Figg: OK, I see.
Dr. Figg: And over time, it sounds like the things that you were using increased and strength.
Ashley Martin: Oh, yeah.
Dr. Figg: Yeah. Okay, where are you becoming tolerant to it that the things that you were using were not working anymore.
Dr. Figg: Yeah. Okay. All right. Um, when
Dr. Figg: Over the years, were you when do you think you started having withdrawals if you stopped using
Ashley Martin: Um,
Dr. Figg: How early. Did that happen.
Ashley Martin: Like how it really like into my addiction. Yeah, probably like three years. Three years. Yeah.
Dr. Figg: He became dependent enough that you started
Ashley Martin: it every day. Yeah.
Dr. Figg: Have you ever had an overdose.
Ashley Martin: Yes. Okay.
Dr. Figg: What was that
Ashley Martin: That was, um,
Ashley Martin: Probably about 12 years ago I say our 10 years ago I mixed method out without all and
Ashley Martin: Okay. Yeah. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Did it just happen. The one time, or more than once.
I
Ashley Martin: Get just one time. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Have you ever been hospitalized for withdrawal.
Ashley Martin: Yes. Okay.
Dr. Figg: When's the last time that happened.
Um,
Ashley Martin: Last year. Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: Um, you mentioned that you've been in recovery.
Dr. Figg: For about a month. Is that right, yeah. That was related to time in jail was that time in jail related to opiates.
Ashley Martin: No. Okay.
Dr. Figg: That was a different unrelated issue entirely
Dr. Figg: Yeah. Okay. Have you had legal problems caused by the opiates over time.
Ashley Martin: And
Ashley Martin: I believe that my addiction, has caused my legal problems. Yeah.
Ashley Martin: Okay. Absolutely.
Dr. Figg: All right. Um, you use talked at first that the Suboxone helps you not use other things. Have you been on Suboxone before
Ashley Martin: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Figg: Tell me about that.
Ashley Martin: It was about
Ashley Martin: 10 years ago and
Ashley Martin: I went to rehab and
Ashley Martin: I started doing boxing program, but I'm still using while I was doing the Suboxone so I wasn't really taking it serious, you know, I was mixing other things with it.
Ashley Martin: So it didn't last very long. I ended up getting out of the program and going back to using methodology and other drugs. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Um, what makes
This time difference
Ashley Martin: Um, well, I'm older.
Ashley Martin: And
Ashley Martin: I have a lot more problems and I'm taking this a lot more, you know, I want it this time I want my I want sobriety. Before I didn't want it. So, so it's a lot different this time.
Dr. Figg: What would happen if you didn't change this time.
Ashley Martin: What happened if I don't change. Yeah. Uh huh. Jail. I'm losing my son. Yeah, all kinds of okay yeah
Dr. Figg: So there's some strong motivators for you.
Ashley Martin: Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: You talked before that about 10 years ago you were in a recovery program. Have you been in other forms of treatment over time.
Ashley Martin: On yeah
Ashley Martin: Well,
Ashley Martin: Yeah, I've done like a God led classes and went to meetings, I'm doing a I'm doing drug court right now. So that's like you know where I'm. Where did you go to like dry meetings and drug and alcohol taxes and stuff like that. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Were you referring to here by the court or no.
Ashley Martin: No, no.
Dr. Figg: Okay. All right. I'm in the past. So 10 years ago you were on Suboxone but you you kind of said you weren't quite using it regularly or use other stuff.
Dr. Figg: So it may not have been as effective. Do you remember though what dose, you were on
Ashley Martin: And these were the pills and I know I was looking for a day. I think I was thinking too. I was thinking two in the morning to at night. Okay, I don't know what milligram
Dr. Figg: Okay, yeah.
Ashley Martin: All right.
Dr. Figg: Have you ever been on methadone.
Ashley Martin: Have ever been on methadone. Yeah.
Dr. Figg: So you said happy I should rephrase that, that have you have you been in a methadone program.
Dr. Figg: Yes. Okay. Yeah. When was that
Ashley Martin: That was about
Ashley Martin: I'd say about
Ashley Martin: It was a little bit after I got, I was boxing program so prob like nine years ago.
Dr. Figg: Okay, sorry. Um, when is the last time we use any kind of opiate
Ashley Martin: It's been
Ashley Martin: It's been about a week.
Dr. Figg: About a week.
Dr. Figg: Okay, and what did you ask us
Ashley Martin: What did I last year.
Ashley Martin: I had a Percocet and
Ashley Martin: I'm working like 30 milligrams working okay
Ashley Martin: All right, yeah.
Dr. Figg: Do, do the opiates that you use make you sleepy.
No.
Dr. Figg: Do you drink any alcohol current
Ashley Martin: Know,
Dr. Figg: do us any kind of other kind of drugs like benzodiazepines.
Ashley Martin: No. Okay. All right.
Um,
Dr. Figg: Are you allergic to anything.
Ashley Martin: In texts and augmenting
Dr. Figg: What's the first one. Did you say
Ashley Martin: In text. What is in tax. I don't know. I really something I took and I was like a kid, it was like seven cold medicine.
Dr. Figg: With that one. I'm not familiar with that. Okay, that's an interesting question. Okay. Um, do you have any other medical conditions.
Ashley Martin: High blood pressure.
Dr. Figg: All right, are you treated for that.
Ashley Martin: I know, but I do see my doctor tomorrow, so I can get back on my medication for it.
Dr. Figg: Okay, so you were treated for it in the past.
Ashley Martin: Yeah. Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: Any history of depression or anxiety. Yeah. Okay. Have you been treated for that.
Ashley Martin: I am being treated for it right now.
Ashley Martin: Okay, what do you take Prozac.
Dr. Figg: Okay, do you take any other medications. No.
Dr. Figg: Okay so Prozac is currently are only medication.
Ashley Martin: Yes. Great. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Just to make sure. Have you ever been tested for HIV or hepatitis.
Ashley Martin: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Figg: Have you ever come up positive either
Dr. Figg: No. Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: What's your dosage Prozac.
Ashley Martin: 20 milligrams 20 milligrams is that just
Dr. Figg: Wants to that.
Ashley Martin: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Figg: Have you ever had any surgeries.
Ashley Martin: Like I had tubes, but in my ears.
Dr. Figg: Okay.
Dr. Figg: When we think about family history. We think about mom, dad, brother, sisters, is there any family history of addiction problems.
Ashley Martin: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Figg: Who has who had a stroll substances.
Dr. Figg: My father. Okay. Is that a alcohol or drugs, or both.
Ashley Martin: Drugs. Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: Um, do there, is there any family history of depression or anxiety. Yeah, okay.
Ashley Martin: My dad and my uncle. Okay.
Dr. Figg: All right. Um, when's the last time you held a job.
Dr. Figg: I
Ashley Martin: Have no work history.
Ashley Martin: Yeah, stay at home mom, very much.
Dr. Figg: Okay.
Ashley Martin: All right, so child child care. I did a lot of child care, you know,
Dr. Figg: Yeah, you do. Child Care for other
Children.
I did.
Dr. Figg: And how old are your kids.
Dr. Figg: It's 13 he's 13 okay
Dr. Figg: Yeah, just one child. Right. Yes.
Ashley Martin: Just one.
Dr. Figg: Making sure I understand. Okay. Do you have any siblings.
Ashley Martin: Yeah, okay.
What
Dr. Figg: Brothers, sisters, what are their ages.
Ashley Martin: Mine. My siblings. Yeah, I have two sisters. One is younger. She's I'm 30 okay she's 33 and then my older sister. She's 36
Ashley Martin: Okay, and then I will have a brother who's 28
Dr. Figg: Okay, great. Just to understand. I want to get a full picture of your history. Okay.
Dr. Figg: So let's talk about the way Suboxone works.
Dr. Figg: And the way right side right heart works. Excuse me. So you mentioned before that you feel like Suboxone
Dr. Figg: Will help you prevent prevent you from using it. So when you take other opiates the things that they do in your brain are kind of like light switches, they turn things on or they turn things off.
Dr. Figg: So when we think about opiates, they fully turn on that pleasure center. That's the height of euphoria.
Dr. Figg: They turn off pain they turn off being away. If you take enough and they turn off breathing. If you take enough. That's, yeah, that's right.
Dr. Figg: buprenorphine Suboxone is an opiate but it's what we call a partial agonist. It doesn't have the full effect like other opiates do so it doesn't tend to have the for your high. The other ones do.
Dr. Figg: It does not turn off your breathing, like the other ones do. It does not turn off your wakefulness. The way to do
Dr. Figg: It does turn off pain. So it is a mild payment legally, but because it doesn't turn off your breathing doesn't turn off your consciousness.
Dr. Figg: It's almost impossible to overdose on socks on by itself. So makes it a much safer medication even compared to Methadone methadone, you can overdose on Suboxone it's pretty pretty hard to unless you mix it with other things and slow your breathing down like alcohol or bentos
Dr. Figg: So that's why I asked about this.
So,
Dr. Figg: It's important to understand the interactions that can hurt you because we want to be as safe as possible and
Dr. Figg: The other important parts.
Ashley Martin: Of Suboxone is that
Dr. Figg: When it's grabbing hold of the receptors in your brain, those lights, which is that it affects it holds on tighter than other things do.
Dr. Figg: So when you're takes a box. So if you take something else Percocet, for instance.
Dr. Figg: The percocet won't be able to attach to the receptor, which means it won't have the effect
Dr. Figg: As long as you've had this box on your system. So it helps block the high and the the beneficial. The pleasure from using other things which helps reduce addictive behaviors.
Dr. Figg: But because it's so those those switches, it will prevent the withdrawal and it will prevent the cravings to use other things. So it helps prevent people from using other stuff. It helps prevent people from being withdrawal.
Dr. Figg: And it's a safer medication. So that's why we like to use this when it's approved for
Ashley Martin: Outpatient use who can
Dr. Figg: write a script like any other medication basically right
Dr. Figg: Okay, you don't have to show up at a clinic every day to what someone wants to take
Dr. Figg: It provides people with a lot more
Dr. Figg: Freedom and functionality and that's what we want is
Dr. Figg: We want you to feel like it's a normal medication, you're going to see your doctor day and probably get pills for your blood pressure.
Dr. Figg: And we want you to associate with in the same regard. It's not something to fix. It's not something is when you feel like it is dependent. I take every day so that I don't have withdrawal or it's every day.
Dr. Figg: But so I don't abuse other stuff. And in that regard. It's just a normal day with medication.
Dr. Figg: The way Brian heart works is, in addition to using medication. We're structured around weekly support pics. So we put people into support groups. They're kind of like an NA meeting.
Dr. Figg: With other people who have a history.
Dr. Figg: Of substance abuse or
Ashley Martin: Opioid addiction.
Dr. Figg: Or in various stages of recovery. That way they can share and support each other. The groups are led by a therapist with a history in addiction treatment.
Dr. Figg: It's about an hour long and it starts with a check in with your doctor.
Dr. Figg: To make sure that your doses good that you're not having side effects, you know, some people are talking about tapering and things like that. And those are being tested.
Dr. Figg: Make sure you're not having withdrawal. Make sure if something's coming out, someone's going to have a surgery or something like that. All those medical issues are addressed on
Ashley Martin: Pretty much weekly basis so we
Dr. Figg: Want you to have lots of access to the doctor.
Dr. Figg: And then it's about an hour long after that for the group and the therapist talks about relapse prevention or stress management or coping skills or something. Something along those lines.
Dr. Figg: does all that makes sense.
Yes. Okay, great.
Dr. Figg: So,
Dr. Figg: That's kind of the way the medication works. That's why I like the medication. That's the way Brian heart works. What we would do from here is two things. One, figure out a schedule for you for a weekly group that you could attend and to write your prescription. Okay.
Dr. Figg: See I have groups that have openings on Tuesday or Thursday at 3pm would one of those work for you.
Ashley Martin: Um, yeah. Tuesday would work.
To say
Dr. Figg: Okay. All right. So what you do to go get into the group. It's done through zoom, just like this. It's just more people right
Dr. Figg: And you're going to call into the virtual clinic, the number you call before me.
Dr. Figg: Just like the front desk of a clinic, if you walk into a doctor's office, they're the first people you talk to. So you're going to call into the virtual thing.
Dr. Figg: The first time we want it to be about 30 minutes beforehand, just to make sure any additional paperwork or things like that are taken care of. And after that, it's usually doesn't take that long, but they do have you felt like questionnaires and things like that sometimes
Dr. Figg: And then they'll give you the number the zoom number for the group which changes every week.
Dr. Figg: Just to make sure people log into the virtual clinic first
Dr. Figg: No. That makes sense.
Dr. Figg: Yep. Okay. Cool. So let's see tomorrow. Today is Monday. So tomorrow would be Tuesday. Would you be able to come tomorrow to start tomorrow.
Dr. Figg: Yes. Wonderful. Okay.
Dr. Figg: And then the last thing.
I don't
Dr. Figg: Actually want. There we go. Sorry, your chart kicks me out. I need
Ashley Martin: To make
Dr. Figg: Sure, I have the correct pharmacy for it with every Walmart on Washington Boulevard East one right. Okay.
Dr. Figg: So it's been a long time since we've been on Suboxone. It sounds like you're on a 32 milligram dose, but your dose, then does not necessarily mean that sure does now.
Dr. Figg: Our goal of dozing Suboxone is to have the lowest effective dose effective means you're not in withdrawal, you're not having cravings, you're not being, you know,
Dr. Figg: You're having the blocking effect for other stuff.
Dr. Figg: And lowest effective means we're not having side effects by being too high, major side effects of Suboxone. Some people have like nosh or abdominal pain, like if they took too many opiates, they drowsy.
Dr. Figg: Or dry mouth, those are the and constipation. So it's an opiate it has the typical side effects that opiates have. So we want to minimize side effects. We want those to be high enough that you're not a witch rolling, you're not having cravings. Does that make sense.
Dr. Figg: Yeah. So what I would suggest we do is to start you on
Dr. Figg: A dose of
Dr. Figg: eight milligrams. It's been a week.
Dr. Figg: Since we last had anything. So you're not in withdrawal currently right
Ashley Martin: No, no.
Dr. Figg: In the major the, the biggest measurement that we're going to have is whether you feel like your cravings to use other things are suppressed.
Dr. Figg: Okay, which only you can no
Ashley Martin: Right.
Dr. Figg: To measure that. So it's very much can be driven by you. We do, we do regular urine drug screens. The purpose of the urine drug screen is always to have proof of what you're saying.
Dr. Figg: So that you can say that if anybody ever asked a question, we can say no. She says that she's only taking Suboxone or during shows that
Dr. Figg: The second reason is so that we can have a conversation if something else comes up because
Dr. Figg: If you have high blood pressure and you're treated for your high blood pressure, you go see your doctor. Your doctor takes your blood pressure and go wow your blood pressure is really high. They don't then say, so I'm going to stop your treatment and good luck to you.
Dr. Figg: We continue training in the same way a person who is dependent on opiates. If they relapse.
Ashley Martin: That's particularly true
Dr. Figg: So it's not a reason to kick them out of a program. It's reason to have a conversation so that we can help them more. Does that make sense.
Dr. Figg: Yeah, good. So
Dr. Figg: That's my, that's my stance.
Dr. Figg: And so I just wanted to understand we do your
Ashley Martin: Screens
Dr. Figg: But those are the reasons that we do that so
Dr. Figg: We're going to work to continue your recovery.
Dr. Figg: I think we should start you to dose of eight milligrams, which comes in either to millionaire mentoring programs for the tablets.
Dr. Figg: And then start you to just once a day.
Dr. Figg: And then kind of have a conversation in the coming weeks. Do you feel like that's doing the right job for you. Do you feel like you need more. Are you still feeling cravings to use other things in various moments of the day. Does that make sense.
Dr. Figg: Yeah, and at the same time make sure that we're not, you know, giving you side effects and things like that. So, okay.
Dr. Figg: You use the tablets before the form of the medication is often dictated by what the pharmacy or what your insurance company will pay for
Dr. Figg: So generally, what I do is write a prescription for just brand name Suboxone and ask the pharmacy to submit to whatever is the preferred form.
Dr. Figg: You need to make sure to put it underneath your tongue and let it dissolve 100% that means don't chew it up.
Dr. Figg: There's a bunch of things underneath your tongue with very little skin in between. So when we certain medications are small enough that they can pass through the skin and go directly into
Dr. Figg: The bloodstream Suboxone has two medications and buprenorphine which is the opiate that helps block cravings and things like that that we want and then naloxone, which is the reversal agent. So that's what they give to people when they overdose, the spray it up your nose and
Ashley Martin: Just like that reverses it
Dr. Figg: When you dissolve it underneath your tongue, you get all of the buprenorphine and none of them lock so so you get the effect you want if you chew it up and swallow it. You don't get any of either of them. It's like
Dr. Figg: I think, neither of them are absorbed very well through your GI tract.
Dr. Figg: If you crush it and then shoot it snorted smoke it. Take it some other way that some people who you're going to get a whole bunch of the lock so
Ashley Martin: It's
Dr. Figg: Going to push you into withdrawal and they're going to hate the fact that you did.
Dr. Figg: So it's an abuse deterrent.
Dr. Figg: Formulation of the medication. I want you to understand that, so that you know it's important that you take it the right way so that we get the effect that we want.
Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: dissolve it on your tongue. It usually takes about five to 10 minutes. Don't eat, drink or smoke for at least 15 minutes afterwards.
Ashley Martin: Okay.
Dr. Figg: Because you don't want to wash anything else down your throat, and then you won't get the full dose of medication. Okay.
Okay.
Dr. Figg: That's
Dr. Figg: I think all of the stuff. So I'm going to issue a prescription to your Wal Mart pharmacy for eight milligrams once a day, and what it was the way the prescription is going to be written is for twice a day.
Dr. Figg: And I want you to start at once a day. I'm going to write it for twice a day so that you have enough if you need to go up on the dose.
Ashley Martin: In the next week.
Dr. Figg: Does that make sense.
Ashley Martin: Yeah.
Dr. Figg: And then we'll look to see you tomorrow and grew
Ashley Martin: Okay.
Dr. Figg: And you'll meet Levada rooster therapist that I work with, for those spirits and she's wonderful
Dr. Figg: Okay.
Ashley Martin: All right, all right.
Dr. Figg: That's all the stuff that I have, what questions or concerns you have
Ashley Martin: No, not me right now. Okay.
Dr. Figg: If you think of a question or concern or something needs to be addressed later if you have any problem at the pharmacy, your first point of contact is the virtual clinic or 24 hours a day.
Dr. Figg: And they're the first ones who can they can sort out most things, if it's something that gets relayed to me or they can relay messages to me if it's something I need to address. Okay.
Ashley Martin: Okay.
Dr. Figg: All right, awesome. Actually, I'm gonna write your script, let us know worried about an hour. You know, before going to the farms saying count things but and then let us know if you have any issues and we'll look to see you tomorrow at three, okay.
Ashley Martin: All right.
Dr. Figg: All right, awesome. So nice to meet you. You
Ashley Martin: Need to take care bye bye
Bye.
Dr. Figg: Okay, so we're going to pull her chairs report during that so that shows the cheese filled current clarify as a libertarian, and that was July of last year. So that may have been related to withdraw us, but it sounds like
Dr. Figg: And I'm going to issue her prescription for eight milligrams twice a day. She's to start at once a day.
anti-trade up
Dr. Figg: And her. She's going to be in our opioid use disorder program, and there were no
Dr. Figg: Concerns on her as I am and on her export expert her audit score is quite high.
Because she was mixing things in the past.
Score was 25